# CryptoClustering-1-
Moduke_19_Challenge
I created a New repository called Crypto Clustering. I cloned the repository to my computer. I pushed the changes to Github. I renamed the Crypto_Clustering_starter_code.ipynb file as Crypto_Clustering.ipynb. I loaded the Crypto_market_data.csv into a dataframe. I got the summary statistics and 
plotted the data to see how it looks before proceeding. I uused the Standardscalar() module from scikit learn to normalize the data from the csv vile. I created a dataframe with the scale data and set the coin_id index from the original Dataframe as the index for the new Dataframe. 
I used the elbow method to find the best value for k by creating a list with the number of k values from 1 to 11. I created an empty list to store the inertia values. Then, I created a for loop to compute the inertia with each possible value of k. I created a dictionary with the data to plot the 
elbow curve. I plotted a line chart with all the inertia values computed with the different values of k to visually identify the optimal value for k. I answered the question - what is the best value for k.
For the Clustering of Cryptocurrencies with K-means using the original scaled data. I initialized the K-means model with the best value for k, I fir the K-means model using the original scaled Dataframe. I predicted the clusters to group the cryptocurrencies using the original scaled Dataframe. I 
created a copy of the original data and added a new column with the predicted clusters. I created a scatter plot using hvPlot as follows, I set the x axis as "price_change_percentage_24th" and thw y axis as "price_change_percentage_change_7d". I colored the graph points with labels found using the 
K-means. I added the "coin_id" column in the hover_cols parameter to identify the Cryptocurrency represented by each data point. To optimize clusters with Principle Component analysis, using the original dataframe, I performed a PCA and reduced the features to thre principal components. I retrieved 
and explained the variance to determine how much information can be attributed to each principal component and then answered this question - what is the total explained variance of the three principal componemts. I created a new dataframe with the PCA data and set the coin_id index from the original
data for the new dataframe. 
For finding th best value for k using the PCA data, I used the elbow mwthod on the PCA data to find the best value for k by creating a list with the numbef of k values from 1 to 11. I created an empty list to store the inertia values. I created a for loop to compute the inertia with each possible value
of k. Then, I created a dictionary with the data to plot the Elbow curve. I plotted a line chart with all the inertia values computed with the different values of k to visually identify the optimal value for k. I answered the questions - what is the best value for k when using the PCA data and does it 
differ from the best k value found using the original data. For the part which talks about the Cluster Cryptocurrencies with K-means using the PCA data. I initialized the K-means model with the best value for k. I fit the K-means model using the PCA data, I predicted the clusters to group the cryptocurrencies
using the PCA data. I created a copy of the dataframe with the PCA data and added a new column to store the predicted clusters. I created a scatter plot using the hvplot as follows: I set the x-axis as "PC1" and the y axis as "PC2". I colored the graph points with the labels found using the K-means. I 
added the "coin_id" column in the hover_cols parameter to identify the cryptocurrency represented by each data point. I answered the question - what is the impact of using fewer features to cluster the data using K-means. 
